Expanded documentation for tracing fields (#1128)
elastic/ecs: docs/usage/tracing.asciidoc

[[ecs-tracing-usage]]
==== Tracing Usage

> A distributed trace is a set of messages, triggered as a result of a single logical operation, consolidated across 

Author: Sounds great. Changed.

the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/apm/get-started/current/distributed-tracing.html[APM Distributed Tracing] documentation.

===== Example

The following is an example **Trace** made up of 6 **Spans**:

------------------------------------------------------------------
Causal relationships between Spans in a single Trace

       [Span A]  ←←←(the root span)
           |
    +------+------+
    |             |
[Span B]      [Span C] ←←←(Span C is a `child` of Span A)
    |             |
[Span D]      +---+-------+
              |           |
          [Span E]    [Span F]
------------------------------------------------------------------

Sometimes it's easier to visualize **Traces** with a time axis as in the diagram
below:

------------------------------------------------------------------
Temporal relationships between Spans in a single Trace

––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–> time

[Span A···················································]
[Span B··············································]
    [Span D··········································]
    [Span C········································]
        [Span E·······]        [Span F··]

> ------------------------------------------------------------------

Author: Updated the text to better align with APM and added the link to APM transactions. Modified the diagrams to indicate transaction spans (and service boundaries).

[[ecs-tracing-usage]]
==== Tracing Usage

> A trace describes the individual operations, and their causality, that ensue as a result of a single logical 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A trace describes the individual operations and their causality that ensue from a single logical 
```

operation. A distributed trace comprises operations across multiple distributed components, crossing process, 
network, and security boundaries.

> For example, a distributed trace may be initiated when someone presses a button to start an action on a website - in this example, 

Reviewer: It's subtle, but this should be an em dash

```suggestion
For example, a distributed trace may be initiated when someone presses a button to start an action on a website – in this example, 
```

> the trace will represent calls made between the downstream services that handled the chain of requests initiated by this 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the trace represents calls made between the downstream services that handled the chain of requests initiated by this 
```

> button being pressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
button press.
```

A trace is made up of transactions and spans, where each transaction/span is one operation, activity, or part of the overall
trace. A transaction is a special kind of span that is the highest level of work measured within a service. In Elastic APM, 

> transactions have additional attributes associated with them 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transactions also have additional attributes associated with them.
```

> (for more detail see https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/apm/get-started/current/transactions.html).

Reviewer: We use attributes for internal links. This ensures links are always correct -- even if pages move.

```suggestion
Learn more about transactions in {apm-overview-ref-v}/transactions.html[APM Transactions].
```

> Usually a transaction corresponds to the top level request to a component. Sometimes a component may break up processing into 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, a transaction corresponds to the top-level request to a component. Sometimes a component may break up processing into 
```

multiple spans (and transactions) if needed. 

> The spans (and transactions) have a parent/child relationship with other spans and form a tree (or directed acylic grapph), 

Reviewer: Is this an either-or? I think it'd be more clear if we said "also known as" instead.

```suggestion
The spans (and transactions) have a parent/child relationship with other spans and form a tree (also known as a directed acyclic graph), 
```

> with each span (or transaction), except the root, having a parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with each span or transaction, except the root, having a parent.
```

The `trace.id` allows the distributed trace messages to be correlated across an entire logical operation.

The `span.id` allows messages from a single section of processing within the overall trace, e.g. a request to a component, to be correlated together. The `transaction.id` is the equivalent for transaction spans.

> If following the https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/[W3C Trace Context Recommendation] then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're following the https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/[W3C Trace Context Recommendation],
```

the values should correspond to those specified in the recommendation and passed in the `traceparent` header, 
with `trace.id` being 32 lowercase hex characters, and `span.id` being 16 lowercase hex characters.

> For correlation wtih Elastic Application Performance Monitoring (APM) see 
> the https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/apm/get-started/current/distributed-tracing.html[APM Distributed Tracing] documentation.

Reviewer: We've already used APM on this page, so I think only using the initialism is acceptable.

```suggestion
For correlation with Elastic APM, see
{apm-overview-ref-v}/distributed-tracing.html[APM Distributed Tracing].
```

===== Example

The following is an example **Trace** made up of 6 **Spans** (2 of which are top level **Transactions**):

------------------------------------------------------------------
Causal relationships between Spans in a single Trace

       [Transaction Span A]  ←←←(the root transaction span)
           |
    +------+------+
    |             | ←←←(call to Service 2)
    |             v
[Span B]      [Transaction Span C] ←←←(C is a child of A)
    |             |
[Span D]      +---+-------+
              |           |
          [Span E]    [Span F]
------------------------------------------------------------------

Sometimes it's easier to visualize **Traces** with a time axis as in the diagram
below:

------------------------------------------------------------------
Temporal relationships between Spans in a single Trace

––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–––––––|–> time

Service 1:
[Transaction Span A·······································]
[Span B··············································]
    [Span D··········································]

Service 2:
    [Transaction Span C····························]
        [Span E·······]        [Span F··]

> ------------------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of how these render. Let me mock up some graphics to replace these. Give me an hour.
